It is based on the BBC series "The Office" created by Ricky Gervais & Stephen Merchant and developed for American television by Greg Daniels.
On multiple behind-the-scenes clips, actors and actresses on the show say and seem that they are very close to the show's crew, which as Jenna Fischer (Pam Beesly) adds, is not always common on filming projects.
The show stars Steve Carell as Michael Scott, Rainn Wilson as Dwight Schrute, John Krasinski as Jim Halpert and Jenna Fischer as Pam Beesly and focuses on the day-to-day lives of the employees of the Scranton branch of the Dunder Mifflin Paper Company.
Although a fictional and scripted show, it is shot in documentary format with characters often acknowledging the presence of the cameras and using talking head segments.
Steve Carell as Michael Scott
A documentary crew arrives to the Dunder Mifflin Scranton Branch to experience a day of work at a seemingly ordinary paper company.
Oblivious Regional Manager Michael Scott sees himself as "a friend first, entertainer second, and boss third".
Michael is entirely unaware that his co-workers would only seldom agree.
Michael's offensive shenanigans and jokes turn them off rather than make them laugh.
Michael fights to keep spirits up despite the looming threat of downsizing and bleak outlook of the branch.
His workdays mainly feature flirting with engaged receptionist Pam Beesly, and pulling pranks on co-worker and Assistant to the Regional Manager Dwight Schrute.
Dwight, the top salesman in the office, worships Michael who is annoyed and yet seemingly pleased by Dwight's habit of sucking up to him.
Dwight is best characterized by his humorous obsession with power and authoritarian style in the workplace.
He is the owner of a 60-acre beet farm, named Schrute Farms.
However she seems to have a greater connection with Jim who has a secret crush on her.
Pam and Jim's favorite hobby in the office is to annoy and orchestrate pranks on Dwight.
Despite Jim's relationship with Katy starting at the end of the first season, Jim continues to struggle with intense feelings for Pam whose rocky engagement with Roy continues.
A few episodes later into the season, Michael spends the night with his recently divorced boss Jan Levinson after securing a major client, Lackawanna County (Scranton's entire county).
In the aftermath, Michael is convinced that Jan is officially his girlfriend, which she frequently denies and attempts to keep secret.
In the season finale, Michael instead hooks up with Carol Stills, his realtor from earlier in the season, leaving Jan unhappy.
Dwight Schrute and Angela begin a highly secretive relationship after having sex at Jim's BBQ party.
Pam becomes convinced that something is going on between the two.
Depressed at the inevitability of Pam getting married, Jim decides to transfer to the Stamford branch at the end of the season.
In the season finale, Jim tells Pam that he is in love with her and the two share a passionate kiss.
Jim Halpert begins the season in the Stamford branch, having moved there to avoid the pain of his unrequited feelings for Pam, who (unknown to Jim) cancelled her wedding with Roy.
When the Stamford branch and Scranton branch merge, the two are brought back together, but things aren't the same.
Jim has a new girlfriend Karen from Stamford, even though he still has strong feelings for Pam.
Karen and Pam sometimes clash, but in one occasion, they team-up.
The season's primary dramatic focus is the gradual emergence of a newer, more confident Pam.
Jim and Pam are revealed to be happily dating, meanwhile other office relationships are less blissful.
Dwight is depressed throughout the season and tries in vain to win her back.
Andy (who transferred from Stamford the previous season) begins to woo Angela into a relationship.
Michael's relationship with Jan crashes after a disastrous dinner party but finds new affection for Toby's HR replacement, Holly Flax in the season finale.
The Office before the start of the Fun Run in Fun Run Pts.
1
Following the Season 3 finale, Ryan makes a big jump from Junior Salesman to Vice President of Regional Sales, replacing Jan at corporate and becoming Michael's superior.
Ryan creates a new Web site called Dunder Mifflin Infinity to help the company become more competitive and up-to-date.
It soon becomes clear that Ryan is in over his head.
The Web site is infiltrated by sexual predators and the overall performance of the website is underwhelming.
In order to boost the reputation of the Web site he commits fraud and is arrested in the season finale.
Jim is blindsided when Ryan lectures him on his job performance and even hints at the possibility of firing him.
Andy proposes to Angela in front of the office and she accepts.
Jim delays his plan to propose to Pam on the same night.
Phyllis walks in on Angela and Dwight having sex in the office to close season 4.
Midway through the season premiere, Jim proposes to Pam at a distant gas station.
Michael does not get along with Ryan's replacement, Charles Miner and his strict management style.
After discussing the situation with David Wallace, Michael abuptly quits and tries to start his own paper company.
Calling it the Michael Scott Paper Company, he recruits Pam and Ryan and they set up an office in a small storage space in the same building as Dunder Mifflin.
Michael's company thrives at first, stealing many of Dunder Mifflin's clients by offering lower prices—yet these same low prices spell out doom for the newborn paper firm as they are unprofitable and thus to the company's bankruptcy.
David Wallace is unaware of this and sees Michael Scott Paper Company as a very real threat to Dunder Mifflin and buys out the Michael Scott Paper Company through offering Michael, Pam and Ryan their jobs back at Dunder Mifflin.
Through the first half of the season, Michael continues to have relationship problems after he breaks up with Holly.
After stealing a file from Holly's computer in Nashua, it is revealed that Holly still has feelings for Michael and regrets ending the relationship.
The end of the season ends with a company picnic and the reunion between Michael and Holly.
The season ends with a cliffhanger, strongly insinuating Pam is pregnant.
Pam reveals to the office she is pregnant in the season premiere.
After a meeting with David Wallace, Jim is promoted to Co-Regional Manager along with Michael, the two have a constant power struggle.
In that episode, it is revealed Michael is dating Helene Beesly, Pam's mother.
Pam is exceedingly angry at Michael for dating her mother but is dismayed when Michael breaks up with Helene on her birthday because of her age.
Dunder Mifflin is going bankrupt and will be insolvent by the end of the year and corporate is forced to face an angry crowd of shareholders.
It is revealed David Wallace will be fired, among many others at corporate, but the Dunder Mifflin Scranton employees are safe.
As of Secret Santa, Dunder Mifflin has been bought out by Sabre.
Throughout the season, Kelly and Ryan have been having an "on again, off again" relationship.
They are seen dancing together in Niagara and in a deleted scene from Secret Santa, Kelly tells Santa (Phyllis) that she wants Ryan for Christmas.
A relationship continues to bud between Erin Hannon and Andy Bernard.
In Murder, Andy asks out Erin, but, since they are both in character, Andy is unsure if just asked out her character.
Though Erin and Andy tell each other it was just part of the game, they both admit in talking heads they though the date was real.
When Andy is Erin's Secret Santa, he gives her presents based on the 12 Days of Christmas.
Yet Andy completes the gift by getting her 12 drummers drumming, which seems to make her very happy.
In the episode, "Happy Hour" Andy announces to the office that he and Erin are dating.
Erin later finds out, by Michael, that Andy was engaged to Angela.
The seventh season consists of 26 half-hours of material (including advertisement time).
This season is the final season for Steve Carell as the lead character Michael Scott, as Carell wants to move on after his contract expires after this season.
Beginning with this season, Zach Woods, who portrays Gabe Lewis, was promoted to a series regular.
Guest appearances in the season include the return of Melora Hardin as Jan Levinson, Amy Ryan as Holly Flax, David Koechner as Todd Packer, and Kathy Bates as Jo Bennett.
Michael is ordered to attend counseling with Toby after spanking his nephew, whom he'd hired as an assistant, in the office.
Erin and Gabe have begun a relationship, much to Andy's chagrin, and he attempts to win her affection back with his performance in a community theater production of Sweeney Todd.
After losing an important client to rival salesman Danny Cordray (Timothy Olyphant), who briefly dated Pam, the office attempts to learn his techniques with a sting operation; when that fails, Michael offers him a job.
Evidently, Michael and Holly's relationship gets serious, and he considers proposing to her.
When Holly learns that her parents are unfit to take care of themselves, she resolves to move back to Colorado to care for them.
Micheal proposes to Holly and decides to leave Dunder Mifflin and move to Colorado with Holly.
The eighth season consists of 24 episodes, originally airing from September 22, 2011 through May 10, 2012.
With Michael Scott gone a vacant position as Regional Manager is left open.
Robert California played by James Spader is hired on but immediately realizes he doesn't want the job.
California drives to Tallahassee and convinces Jo Bennett to give him her job as CEO of Sabre (which owns Dunder Mifflin).
Robert then commissions Jim, Dwight, Erin, Stanley, and a temp to head to Florida to oversee the opening of a Sabre store in Tallahassee.
Dwight earns the position of vice president of the Sabre store, California decides to cancel the Sabre store project and fires everyone involved.
Jim manages to prevent Dwight from being fired and they return to Scranton.
Erin, dismayed with Andy being in a relationship decides to stay in Florida as a caregiver at a residential home.
Andy discovers this and travels to Tallahassee to convince Erin to come back and confess his love for her.
Robert fires Andy after an argument and Andy decides to start his own paper company.
Andy then contacts David Wallace who is now super wealthy after selling a patent to the US military.
Robert leaves and Andy is once again given the position of regional manager of the Scranton branch.
It consisted of 23 episodes, originally airing from September 20, 2012 through May 16, 2013

The Office has been honored with numerous award nominations.
The following is a selected list of awards the show has won.
A complete list of awards and nominations can be seen here.
