Q: What is the shape of Pennsylvania?
A: Pennsylvania is approximately rectangular in shape.

Q: How long is Pennsylvania from east to west?
A: Pennsylvania stretches about 300 miles (480 km) from east to west.

Q: How long is Pennsylvania from north to south?
A: Pennsylvania stretches about 150 miles (240 km) from north to south.

Q: Which states border Pennsylvania to the north?
A: Pennsylvania is bordered to the north by Lake Erie and New York state.

Q: Which states border Pennsylvania to the east?
A: Pennsylvania is bordered to the east by New York and New Jersey.

Q: Which states border Pennsylvania to the south?
A: Pennsylvania is bordered to the south by Delaware, Maryland, and West Virginia.

Q: Which states border Pennsylvania to the west?
A: Pennsylvania is bordered to the west by the panhandle of West Virginia and by Ohio.

Q: What is the capital of Pennsylvania?
A: The capital of Pennsylvania is Harrisburg.

Q: What is the nickname of Pennsylvania?
A: Pennsylvania is known as the Keystone State.

Q: Why is Pennsylvania sometimes called the Keystone State?
A: Pennsylvania's central location on the Eastern Seaboard is sometimes said to be the source of its nickname, the Keystone State.

Q: Does Pennsylvania touch the Atlantic Ocean?
A: No, Pennsylvania does not touch the Atlantic Ocean at any point.

Q: Which river forms the boundary between Pennsylvania and New Jersey?
A: The Delaware River forms the boundary between Pennsylvania and New Jersey.

Q: What is Philadelphia's significance in Pennsylvania?
A: Philadelphia is a major harbor on the Delaware River and one of the world’s busiest shipping centers.

Q: Which region does Pittsburgh lie in?
A: Pittsburgh lies on the eastern edge of the great industrial region extending along the Great Lakes plains to Chicago.

Q: How did the landforms of Pennsylvania originate?
A: The landforms of Pennsylvania had their origin about 500 million years ago.

Q: What type of sedimentation occurred in Pennsylvania's past?
A: For about 250 million years, rivers originating from an extensive mountain chain on the east poured sediments into the great Appalachian downwarp basin.

Q: What did the great swamps in southwestern Pennsylvania provide?
A: The great swamps in southwestern Pennsylvania provided the vegetation that ultimately became the coal beds of the area.

Q: How were the rocks of Pennsylvania affected by plate-tectonic movement?
A: Plate-tectonic movement folded the flat-lying sediment into upwarps and downwarps, metamorphosing the rocks.

Q: What physiographic regions does Pennsylvania include parts of?
A: Pennsylvania includes parts of large physiographic regions that extend beyond its borders.

Q: What is the Ridge and Valley Province in Pennsylvania characterized by?
A: The Ridge and Valley Province in Pennsylvania is characterized by long, narrow valleys and parallel ridges aligned over a long distance.

Q: What is the highest point in Pennsylvania?
A: Mount Davis is the highest point in Pennsylvania at 3,213 feet (979 meters).

Q: What river drains the largest section of Pennsylvania?
A: The Susquehanna River drains the largest section of Pennsylvania.

Q: What river forms the Ohio River at Pittsburgh?
A: The Ohio River is formed by the confluence of the Allegheny (north) and Monongahela (south) rivers at Pittsburgh.
