Q: When was Steve Carell born?
A: Steve Carell was born on August 16, 1962, in Concord, Massachusetts, U.S.

Q: What is Steve Carell known for?
A: Steve Carell is known for his work as an American comedian and actor, particularly for his roles on television shows like The Daily Show and The Office, as well as his appearances in numerous films.

Q: Where did Steve Carell graduate from?
A: Steve Carell graduated from Denison University in Granville, Ohio, in 1984.

Q: When did Steve Carell join the improvisational troupe Second City?
A: Steve Carell joined the improvisational troupe Second City in 1989 after moving to Chicago.

Q: When did Steve Carell make his film debut?
A: Steve Carell made his film debut two years after joining Second City, in the movie Curley Sue.

Q: What television sitcom did Steve Carell work on in 1996?
A: In 1996, Steve Carell worked on the television sitcom The Dana Carvey Show, for which he also wrote.

Q: When did Steve Carell start appearing on The Daily Show?
A: Steve Carell started appearing on The Daily Show in 1999.

Q: What was the name of the segment where Steve Carell debated Stephen Colbert?
A: The segment was called "Even Stephven."

Q: When did Steve Carell leave The Daily Show?
A: Steve Carell left The Daily Show in 2005.

Q: What character did Steve Carell portray in The Office?
A: Steve Carell portrayed the delusional and socially challenged manager Michael Scott in The Office.

Q: What was Steve Carell's major film breakthrough?
A: Steve Carell's major film breakthrough came in 2005 with The 40-Year-Old Virgin, which he cowrote and starred in as the title character.

Q: Who directed The 40-Year-Old Virgin?
A: The 40-Year-Old Virgin was directed by Judd Apatow.

Q: What role did Steve Carell play in Bruce Almighty?
A: In Bruce Almighty, Steve Carell played a supporting role alongside Jim Carrey.

Q: Who did Steve Carell play in Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy?
A: In Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy, Steve Carell played Brick Tamland, a weatherman with an IQ of 48.

Q: What award did Steve Carell win for his role in The Office?
A: Steve Carell won a Golden Globe for his role in The Office.

Q: Who did Steve Carell star opposite in Date Night?
A: Steve Carell starred opposite Tina Fey in Date Night.

Q: What type of character did Steve Carell play in Dinner for Schmucks?
A: Steve Carell played a cheerfully oblivious misfit in Dinner for Schmucks.

Q: Who did Steve Carell voice in the animated film Despicable Me?
A: Steve Carell voiced the character Gru, a super-villain, in Despicable Me.

Q: What was the premise of Seeking a Friend for the End of the World?
A: Seeking a Friend for the End of the World is about lonely neighbors who find romance as an asteroid hurtles toward Earth.

Q: Who did Steve Carell play in Foxcatcher?
A: In Foxcatcher, Steve Carell played John du Pont, a member of the wealthy du Pont family.

Q: What was the role of Steve Carell in Freeheld?
A: In Freeheld, Steve Carell played a gay activist attempting to secure pension benefits for the partner of a dying police officer.

Q: Who did Steve Carell portray in Battle of the Sexes?
A: In Battle of the Sexes, Steve Carell portrayed Bobby Riggs, a tennis player.

Q: What role did Steve Carell play in Beautiful Boy?
A: In Beautiful Boy, Steve Carell played a father trying to save his son from drug addiction.

Q: What was the premise of Welcome to Marwen?
A: Welcome to Marwen is based on a true story of an artist who finds a therapeutic outlet in building a miniature town populated by dolls.

Q: What role did Steve Carell play in The Morning Show?
A: In The Morning Show, Steve Carell starred alongside Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon.

Q: Who did Steve Carell portray in Space Force?
A: In Space Force, Steve Carell portrayed a character involved in the creation of an interstellar branch of the military.

Q: What was the premise of Irresistible?
A: Irresistible is a political satire about a consultant working on a mayoral race in a small Midwestern town.

Q: Who did Steve Carell play in The Patient?
A: In The Patient, Steve Carell portrayed a therapist who is held prisoner by a serial killer.

Q: What show did Steve Carell and his wife, Nancy, create?
A: Steve Carell and his wife, Nancy, created the show Angie Tribeca, a send-up of television police procedurals.

Q: What role did Steve Carell play in Vice?
A: In Vice, Steve Carell portrayed U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld.