Q: Who are some of the rich secondary players in The Office?
A: Some of the rich secondary players in The Office include Paul Lieberstein, Creed Bratton, and Oscar Nuñez.

Q: What improv troupe was Oscar Nuñez a part of before landing the role of Oscar in The Office?
A: Oscar Nuñez was a part of the Groundlings, a seminal Los Angeles improv troupe, before landing the role of Oscar in The Office.

Q: What award did Oscar Nuñez pick up for The Office: The Accountants?
A: Oscar Nuñez picked up a Daytime Emmy when the online spin-off The Office: The Accountants scored the first-ever Emmy for Outstanding Broadband Program.

Q: What was the improvised Comedy Central comedy about that Oscar Nuñez executive-produced and starred in?
A: Oscar Nuñez executive-produced and starred in Halfway Home, an improvised Comedy Central comedy about the wacky denizens of a halfway home.

Q: What was the game show that Oscar Nuñez appeared on before his television debut?
A: Oscar Nuñez appeared on Win, Lose Or Draw before his television debut.

Q: Who were some of the panelists on the game show that Oscar Nuñez appeared on before his television debut?
A: Some of the panelists on the game show that Oscar Nuñez appeared on before his television debut were George Hamilton, Vicki Lawrence, and Nell Carter.

Q: What was the question that Oscar Nuñez was asked on the game show that led to a humorous response?
A: The question Oscar Nuñez was asked on the game show was, "George Hamilton is so vain that when he swings through the jungles of Beverly Hills in one hand he holds a vine, in the other a _____."

Q: What was the question that Oscar Nuñez was asked on the game show that led to a humorous response involving the word "Blow"?
A: The question Oscar Nuñez was asked on the game show that led to a humorous response involving the word "Blow" was, "Sally was a pet masseuse, but instead of giving you a massage job, she gives you a _____ job."

Q: How did Oscar Nuñez end up winning on the game show?
A: Oscar Nuñez ended up winning on the game show by giving a humorous response, although he knew he wasn't going to win overall.

Q: What did Oscar Nuñez and the other contestants on Celebrity Family Feud initially feel before the game?
A: Oscar Nuñez and the other contestants on Celebrity Family Feud initially felt cocky before the game, thinking they were going to beat the Gladiators.

Q: What happened during the game of Celebrity Family Feud that Oscar Nuñez participated in?
A: Oscar Nuñez participated in a game of Celebrity Family Feud where they were driven around town with police escorts and eventually won the whole thing.

Q: How did Oscar Nuñez feel about playing a character with his first name on The Office?
A: Oscar Nuñez felt that playing a character with his first name on The Office could be both easier and harder, as people might confuse him for the character.

Q: What was the experience like for Oscar Nuñez at The Office convention in Pennsylvania?
A: The experience for Oscar Nuñez at The Office convention in Pennsylvania was crazy, with people coming from all over the country and even from other countries like Ireland.

Q: What was Oscar Nuñez's reaction to the idea of his character possibly being made gay on The Office?
A: Oscar Nuñez was initially anxious about the rumors that his character might be made gay on The Office, but he ended up being okay with it.

Q: How did the famous kiss scene between Oscar Nuñez and Steve Carell come about?
A: The famous kiss scene between Oscar Nuñez and Steve Carell came about unexpectedly during filming, with Steve Carell coming in really close for a hug and then kissing him.

Q: How did Oscar Nuñez feel about the famous kiss scene between him and Steve Carell?
A: Oscar Nuñez felt that if the kiss had happened in real life, the person who did it would have been fired long ago due to its inappropriateness.

Q: What was Oscar Nuñez's opinion on the tension between going for laughs and staying true to the characters on The Office?
A: Oscar Nuñez felt that on The Office, there was a constant tension between going for laughs and staying true to the characters, especially considering Michael and Dwight as the crazies and everyone else as normal.

Q: What did Oscar Nuñez think about the golden age of improvisation in comedy?
A: Oscar Nuñez liked the golden age of improvisation in comedy, especially appreciating shows like Curb Your Enthusiasm for showing that improv could be done well.

Q: How did Oscar Nuñez feel about shooting deleted scenes for The Office DVDs?
A: Oscar Nuñez felt that shooting deleted scenes for The Office DVDs was fun because they could explore more gag-driven and minor character-driven moments.

Q: What was Oscar Nuñez's opinion on the character of Oscar in The Office?
A: Oscar Nuñez felt that his character, Oscar, was fundamentally content but possibly leaning towards melancholia, and that he might be happier in a different city but is too lazy to move.

Q: What was Oscar Nuñez's initial reaction to the idea of remaking The Office for American audiences?
A: Oscar Nuñez's initial reaction to the idea of remaking The Office for American audiences was skepticism, but he thought they had a shot at it when he found out Steve Carell was cast as the lead.
