Q: Who created the BBC series "The Office"?
A: Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant.

Q: Who developed the American version of "The Office"?
A: Greg Daniels.

Q: Who stars as Michael Scott in "The Office"?
A: Steve Carell.

Q: Who portrays Dwight Schrute in "The Office"?
A: Rainn Wilson.

Q: Who plays Jim Halpert in "The Office"?
A: John Krasinski.

Q: Who is known for her role as Pam Beesly in "The Office"?
A: Jenna Fischer.

Q: What is the premise of "The Office"?
A: It focuses on the day-to-day lives of the employees of the Scranton branch of the Dunder Mifflin Paper Company.

Q: In what format is "The Office" shot?
A: It is shot in a documentary format, with characters often acknowledging the presence of the cameras and using talking head segments.

Q: How does Michael Scott view himself?
A: He sees himself as "a friend first, entertainer second, and boss third."

Q: What is one of Michael Scott's main characteristics?
A: He is entirely unaware of how his offensive shenanigans and jokes turn off his coworkers rather than make them laugh.

Q: Who does Dwight Schrute worship in "The Office"?
A: He worships Michael Scott, who is annoyed yet seemingly pleased by Dwight's habit of sucking up to him.

Q: What is Dwight Schrute best characterized by?
A: He is best characterized by his humorous obsession with power and authoritarian style in the workplace.

Q: What is Dwight Schrute's offbeat hobby?
A: He is the owner of a 60-acre beet farm named Schrute Farms.

Q: What is one of Jim Halpert's secrets in "The Office"?
A: He has a secret crush on Pam Beesly, who is engaged to Roy.

Q: Who does Jim Halpert have a greater connection with?
A: He seems to have a greater connection with Pam Beesly.

Q: What is a favorite hobby of Jim Halpert and Pam Beesly in "The Office"?
A: They enjoy annoying and orchestrating pranks on Dwight Schrute.

Q: Who does Pam Beesly have a rocky engagement with?
A: She has a rocky engagement with Roy.

Q: Who does Michael Scott spend the night with after securing a major client?
A: He spends the night with his recently divorced boss, Jan Levinson.

Q: Who does Michael Scott hook up with in the season finale, leaving Jan Levinson unhappy?
A: He hooks up with Carol Stills, his realtor from earlier in the season.

Q: Who begin a highly secretive relationship after having sex at Jim's BBQ party?
A: Dwight Schrute and Angela.

Q: Who becomes convinced that something is going on between Dwight Schrute and Angela?
A: Pam Beesly.

Q: Who decides to transfer to the Stamford branch after becoming depressed at the inevitability of Pam Beesly getting married?
A: Jim Halpert.

Q: Who tells Pam Beesly that he is in love with her in the season finale?
A: Jim Halpert.

Q: Who begins the season in the Stamford branch to avoid the pain of his unrequited feelings for Pam Beesly?
A: Jim Halpert.

Q: Who does Jim Halpert start dating, even though he still has strong feelings for Pam Beesly?
A: He starts dating Karen from Stamford.

Q: Who continues to struggle with intense feelings for Pam Beesly despite being in a relationship with Katy?
A: Jim Halpert.

Q: Who do Jim Halpert and Pam Beesly reveal to be happily dating in the season, much to the dismay of other office relationships?
A: They reveal to be happily dating each other.

Q: Who begins to woo Angela into a relationship in "The Office"?
A: Andy, who transferred from Stamford the previous season.

Q: Who does Michael Scott find new affection for in the season finale?
A: He finds new affection for Toby's HR replacement, Holly Flax.

Q: Who makes a big jump from Junior Salesman to Vice President of Regional Sales in "The Office"?
A: Ryan.

Q: Who replaces Jan as the Vice President of Regional Sales in "The Office"?
A: Ryan.

Q: Who creates a new Web site called Dunder Mifflin Infinity to help the company become more competitive in "The Office"?
A: Ryan.

Q: Who is ordered to attend counseling with Toby after spanking his nephew in the office in "The Office"?
A: Michael Scott.

Q: Who earns the position of vice president of the Sabre store in "The Office"?
A: Dwight Schrute.

Q: Who is dismayed with Andy being in a relationship and decides to stay in Florida as a caregiver at a residential home in "The Office"?
A: Erin Hannon.

Q: Who commissions Jim, Dwight, Erin, Stanley, and a temp to head to Florida to oversee the opening of a Sabre store in Tallahassee in "The Office"?
A: Robert California.

Q: Who decides to start his own paper company after being fired by Robert California in "The Office"?
A: Andy Bernard.

Q: Who fires Andy after an argument in "The Office"?
A: Robert California.

Q: Who is promoted to Co-Regional Manager along with Michael Scott in "The Office"?
A: Jim Halpert.

Q: Who is promoted to Co-Regional Manager along with Jim Halpert in "The Office"?
A: Michael Scott.

Q: Who does Jim Halpert propose to at a distant gas station in "The Office"?
A: He proposes to Pam Beesly.

Q: Who does Andy Bernard confess his love for in "The Office"?
A: He confesses his love for Erin Hannon.

Q: Who fires Andy after an argument in "The Office"?
A: Robert California.

Q: Who is promoted to Regional Manager of the Scranton branch after Robert California leaves in "The Office"?
A: Andy Bernard.

Q: Who plays the character Robert California in "The Office"?
A: James Spader.

Q: Who is hired as the Regional Manager but immediately realizes he doesn't want the job in "The Office"?
A: Robert California.

Q: Who does Robert California drive to Tallahassee and convince to give him her job as CEO of Sabre in "The Office"?
A: Jo Bennett.

Q: Who is commissioned by Robert California to head to Florida to oversee the opening of a Sabre store in Tallahassee in "The Office"?
A: Jim, Dwight, Erin, Stanley, and a temp.

Q: Who earns the position of vice president of the Sabre store in "The Office"?
A: Dwight Schrute.