https://www.digitalspy.com/tv/ustv/a330871/office-jenna-fischer-steve-carell-exit-emotional/


Jenna Fischer has said that filming her final scenes with Steve Carell on The Office was a "really emotional" experience. 
Carell left the NBC series and his role as Dunder Mifflin manager Michael Scott in April in order to pursue other projects. 
Fischer recalled getting "choked up" while shooting her last scenes with Carell, as many of her lines were improvised. 
"That was really emotional. They said, 'You know what, Jenna? Just say whatever you would want to say to Steve. Just say goodbye and we'll tape it and when you're finished, just give each other a hug and go your separate ways'," she said in an interview with New York Magazine.
"And it was actually a challenge because every time I got down there I would start to cry right away, and I had to try to hold that in a little bit. We did so many takes of that goodbye and I cried every single time. I even got choked up just telling the story right now."
Carell admitted this week that it is "a little weird" not to be returning to work for The Office's new season. 
The Office returns for an eighth season on September 22 on NBC.
> Jenna Fischer reveals sex of baby during Jay Leno interview

Dakota Johnson says Office role was "worst time"
The Office US boss on why he won't reboot show
The Office's Steve Carell lands Broadway role
The Office US boss responds to reboot rumours
The Office US reboot in the works again
The Office's Rainn Wilson was "unhappy" on show
The Office gets Australian reboot with female cast
The Office's Rainn Wilson shares idea for a new ep
The Office's Carell couldn't break one show habit
Mean Girls musical adds two more faces to the cast
The Office star says show is 'inappropriate' now
The Office star joins Jennifer Garner for new film
DIGITAL SPY, PART OF THE HEARST UK ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK
We earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article.
©2024 Hearst UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 30 Panton Street, Leicester Square, London, SW1Y 4AJ. Registered in England. All Rights Reserved.