https://www.britannica.com/place/Scranton-Pennsylvania

Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
Scranton,  city, seat (1878) of Lackawanna county, northeastern Pennsylvania, U.S., in the Lackawanna River valley, on the western fringes of the Pocono Mountains. It is the centre of an urbanized industrial complex that includes Carbondale and Wilkes-Barre.
The area was inhabited by Algonquian-speaking Munsee Indians (a subgroup of the Delaware) when white settlers entered the region in the mid-18th century. Permanent settlement of the valley dates from 1788, when it was known as Deep Hollow. In the next few years a gristmill, a sawmill, and a charcoal furnace were built along the Lackawanna, but there was little development. The village was called Unionville, Slocum Hollow, and Harrison before it was named Scrantonia and finally Scranton in 1851 in honour of the family that established the Lackawanna Iron and Coal Company there in 1840. George W. and Selden Scranton began smelting iron from local ores, using an anthracite hot-blast process. The venture was successful, and by 1850 a rolling mill, a nail factory, and a steel-rail works were in operation. Subsequent development of the anthracite-coal industry overshadowed the iron industry and brought in waves of immigrant miners, whose wives were skilled in the silk-weaving, clothing, and other industries. Scranton is noted for its production of Nottingham lace.
With the decline and later demise of the coal industry from the 1950s, the city diversified its economy and received national recognition for its “Scranton Plan,” which provided jobs through industrial expansion. Community contributions and private and state aid financed construction of many new plants. Leading manufacturers now produce electronic equipment and metal products. The city is also a printing centre and a transportation hub with access to the Pennsylvania Turnpike.
Higher education facilities include the University of Scranton (Roman Catholic; 1888), Marywood University (founded as Marywood College; 1915), Lackawanna Junior College (1894), and a branch campus (1921) of Pennsylvania State University (Penn State Worthington Scranton) in nearby Dunmore. The state school for the deaf and the International Correspondence Schools are also in Scranton. The Everhart Museum of Natural History, Science, and Art in the city’s Nay Aug Park has an outstanding bird collection. The Pennsylvania Anthracite Heritage Museum and the Lackawanna Coal Mine Tour are in Scranton’s McDade Park. The Steamtown National Historic Site next to downtown Scranton has operating steam locomotives, rolling stock, and a restored roundhouse. Also located on the Steamtown site is the Electric City Trolley Museum. Inc. borough, 1853; city, 1866. Pop. (2000) 76,415; Scranton–Wilkes-Barre Metro Area, 560,625; (2010) 76,089; Scranton–Wilkes-Barre Metro Area, 563,631.